>> Kent C. Dodds: All of this talk
about is really awesome things,
gets me super excited.
But, what is an AST?
We talk about how this AST can
accomplish these really cool things,
but what even is that?
So this is code, it is a module,
it is something you can actually install
to code transformers' names, and
it'll get you a random Transformers' name.
I don't even know what
their names are anymore.
But if you're into
Transformers you might care.
So this is code, and it's code for humans.
I'm using variable names here that
are useful for us, but as far as
the computer's concerned that could be
variable A and this could be variable B.
It really doesn't matter.
But for us it does, and so
we write our code in a way that,
that makes sense for us and then,
we send that off to a computer and
it turns it into something
that looks like this.
This is a JavaScript object
that represents that program.
It's much bigger to
represent what we had there.
It's pretty wild stuff.
So this is an AST, maybe it looks
a little bit scary, maybe not, but
hopefully by the end of this,
it's not scary to you and
it's just a JavaScript object
cuz that's really all it is.
It's pretty cool.
So that's kinda hard to read so we're
going to explore an AST using this really
neat demo from this
company called JointJS.
This demo is, actually,
it's purpose is to show you how cool their
draphing tool is, and they just happen
to be using an AST to demonstrate that, so
we're gonna be abusing this a little bit.
Thank you JointJS.
Okay, cool.
So this is some code,
here let's bump this up a little bit.
And we're declaring some variables.
We have this function declaration, and
we're making some assignments here.
If we click Show AST,
then we'll see that AST out here.
So let's explore this a little bit.
The AST starts out with a program.
And the program has a body, and
all of what's inside of our
program is in that body.
And then as part of that
body we have four things.
And that first one if our
variable declaration.
So you can see at the top of our
program is that variable declaration
that's happening right there.
And that variable declaration
has a single declarator.
So the variable declaration of type
var has a declarator that is a = 42.
And that variable declarator has
a left side and a right side.
The left side is a and
the right side is 42, literal 42.
One of the things that I really
like about working with ASTs
is it makes me better at JavaScript.
Because I understand what the purpose
of these different pieces
of the language are.
And also how they work together.
So sometimes I forget that a variable
declaration can have multiple declarators,
and that's why these two
things are separate.
So if I add another declarator here,
we'll say q = 23,
we'll show the AST again.
Now, this variable declaration
has two variable declarators.
And each have a left side and
a right side.
Left side and right side can be a little
bit more complex, so we could say a + 23.
And now, this q variable declarator
has a left side of the identifier q.
So this is what we're assigning things to.
And then the right side
is a binary expression.
And so now, like,
we see this addition operator.
And we can actually give it a name.
It's a binary expression.
And a binary expression also has
a left side and a right side.
And it can go down as deep as you want.
You can keep going forever and
ever and ever.
And that's just JavaScript.
But it kind of changes
the way that our ast
represents itself,
I think it's pretty rad.
So the left side of a BinaryExpression can
be another one, and another, and another.
And what's cool about this is you
get to learn about precedence,
about how JavaScript is evaluating things.
So if we toss in a multiplication in here,
it's gonna throw the AST off like
it's gonna be totally different.
So now this BinaryExpression branches off
with the right side as a BinaryExpression
23 times a because of precedence.
And so you learn about how JavaScript
works by working with these ASTs.
We'll just explore a couple
more things here just so
you can get some exposure
to a few more node types.
And I failed to mentioned each of
these is called a node in AST,
the Abstract Syntax Tree.
And each one of these can have branches,
and then you get to your leaf nodes.
Often, that winds up being
an identifier or something.
So here we have another
variable declaration,
that's not interesting anymore,
we know that.
Now we have a function declaration,
that has a block statement.
And that block statement has a body.
Which can have one or
more elements inside of it.
It only has one, it's a return statement.
Let's make it have another one.
So I'll say d += 1.
And so now that function block
statement has two items in it.
So the first is an expression statement.
Within an assignment expression, with the
left side as d and the right side as 1.
And then our block statement also has
a return statement as the last item, and
that's a binary expression for
the left and right.
So we could do this all day long.
There are all kinds of different
node types that you can mess with.
But it's more fun to actually really mess
with them and we're gonna do that next.
Before I move on,
any questions about AST's in general?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: There's a question online,
does the variable declaration
distinguish between LAR CONST or LET.
And how is that represented in the tree?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yes, it does,
I will show you in just a sec.
That's a great leading in question for
this bit.
So everybody feel free to
go to ASTExplorer.net.
And you won't see what I'm seeing,
unless you're on my slides,
you click on this link.
But, yeah, it's fun to play around with
regardless of what code's in there.
So yeah, let's, actually, I'll show you
this variable declaration right here.
And the distinction is in this kind
property on the variable declaration node.
So you can also, here we'll change this
to var, that changes the kind to var.
And let that changes the kind to let.
So before I explore this code and
the ast any further,
I wanna just show you the AST Explorer.
Because as you work with ASTs,
you'll spend a huge amount of
your time in the AST Explorer.
So here you can Fork, and Save, and
create a new one, share things.
And then, I don't even know what
this icon is supposed to be,
but this all of the different ASTs
that are available to be parsed.
So you can actually parse the CSS AST,
or the CSS code into an AST and
graph UL and mark down and like actually,
wait, there is no mark down but
there should be and
you could add it because it's awesome,
because there are markdown parsers
that create ASTs out of things.
Yeah, JSON, I don't understand why
you'd wanna parse JSON, to be honest.
From a JSON object into a JSON,
I don't know, but I'm sure some
people have use cases for that.
Even regex, all kinds of really
interesting and awesome things.
And I'm glad that we could do this,
cuz it's a lot of fun.
We're gonna stick with JavaScript here.
And then this next session, based off
of the language that you've chosen,
you have various parsers, and with
JavaScript, there are several parsers.
And there's an effort to standardize
on the AST that they create, but
they do create slightly different
representations of the code.
So here we can see if I choose acorn,
the root node is a program.
If I choose babel-eslint, then here
the root note is a program, as well.
But if I choose Babylon,
the root note is a file.
So there are like some subtle
differences between these and
each has like some extra properties that
are useful for the purpose of this parser.
So we're gonna be starting out with ES
lint and ES lint's parser is espree.
Or, you can use babel ESLint
which uses babel's parser and
then converts it into
ESLint supported AST.
And so you'd use that if you're using
features that the ESLint parser doesn't
support yet.
But most things are supported by Esprit,
so we'll stick with that.
You can specify some options here, and
then you can do this really neat
transform thing right in the browser.
You can write your plugins in the browser.
This is the enabling tool for
writing plugins and
for pretty much everything.
It's awesome.
As I click around, I have this autofocus
thing checked and so as I click around
it's going to automatically focus
to the node that my cursor is on.
So you'll see that most things
that I click on are identifiers.
So those are bits of text that identify
a piece of a node,
that's the idea of this property.
And so if I go ahead and explore a little
bit further, I'll just, here we go.
We're on a block statement
in this random function.
And we can see some properties here.
It gives us a range,
a start, and an end for
where the first character
exists in the source code.
It gives us a body and
that body is an array and
it only has one node it's
just an if statement and
inside of that if statement it has a test
and a consequent and an alternate.
Now we have like names for these things,
like you always use to say,
the if statement like passes and
then the other one.
Now you can say, okay,
my test is failing, so
my consequent isn't running,
my alternate is running.
You can actually talk about code
using proper names, which is cool.
So the test is a binary expression.
Binary expression nodes have a left and
right and
consequent, which in this case has a body
but it doesn't have to have a body.
We can actually fun fact with JavaScript.
You don't need to have those braces.
And you learn stuff like that when
you're messing around with ASTs and
you realize that would be hard
code to read and update and stuff.
So we should always do blind statement.
But you don't have to.
That consequent can be any expression.
And then we have an alternate and
it's a BlockStatement that has a body.
So, again,
we could explore ASTs like all day.
There are tons and
tons of different node types, but
we're going to actually dig into this and
manipulate and
inspect these things to get a good
idea of how to actually leverage this
to be useful for the things that
we're doing for work or whatever.